What does it do?
================

dnslogger-forward implements a sensor for the passive DNS replication
project.  A sensor forwards a subset of DNS traffic to a central
monitoring station for analysis.

The advantages of this C program over the Perl script that was
distributed previously are increased performance and UDP checksum
verification by the sensor.  (The Perl script happily forwards UDP
packets with incorrect checksums.)  Furthermore, the C version uses a
different protocol that optionally includes the authoritative name
server addresses, which allows a collector to gather additional
statistcs without endangering user privacy.  (See the manpage for
details.).

Keep in mind that dnslogger-forward is just a sensor.  For a working
passive DNS replication infrastructure, you also need the collector.

Requirements
============

  - an ANSI C compiler (GCC 3.3 works well)

  - libpcap 0.8 (libpcap 0.7 should work, too)

  - access to some DNS traffic

  - some agreement with a DNS replication operator to submit data

Installation
============

Compile the software using:

  $ ./configure
  $ make

Run the test suite:

  $ make test
  All tests passed.
  $ 

If there are any error messages, please send a bug report to
<dnslogger-bugs@lists.enyo.de>, including the error messages, your
operating system and version, your C compiler and version, and the
version of your system's libpcap library.

You may now run

  $ make install

to install dnslogger-forward to /usr/local/bin.  You can change this
directory by invoking ./configure with the --prefix option (the
default is --prefix=/usr/local).  However, dnslogger-forward does not
need any configuration files and can run from within the build
directory.

Please note that the program may or may not compile with non-GNU
compilers.  Errors in this area will be corrected, as time permits.

Running dnslogger-forward
=========================

See the manpage for details.

How to contribute
=================

Please contact Florian Weimer <fw@deneb.enyo.de> if you want to run
dnslogger-forward and contribute to the passive DNS replication
project.
